Add Azure workload identity federation guide (#4751)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/developing-applications/integrations/Azure/azure-authentication/authenticating-azure.md

weight: 10000
---

> Most Azure components for Dapr support authenticating with Microsoft Entra ID. Thanks to this:

Reviewer: @msfussell this is a bit of a rework but Alex and I chatted and think this flows better with the document

Some Azure components offer alternative authentication methods, such as systems based on "shared keys" or "access tokens". Although these are valid and supported by Dapr, you should authenticate your Dapr components using Microsoft Entra ID whenever possible to take advantage of many benefits, including:

- [Managed Identities and Workload Identity](#managed-identities-and-workload-identity-federation)
- [Role-Based Access Control](#role-based-access-control)
- [Auditing](#auditing)
- [(Optional) Authentication using certificates](#optional-authentication-using-certificates)

> ### Ways to implement managed identities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Options to implement managed identity
```

Author: I'm varying this suggestion a little at the end based on some of the rework we discussed.  But yes, using "options" instead of "ways".

An application can authenticate with Microsoft Entra ID and obtain an access token to make requests to Azure services through several methods:

>  - [Workload Identity Federation]({{< ref howto-wif.md >}}) - The recommended way to configure your Microsoft Entra ID tenant to trust an external identity provider.  This includes service accounts from Kubernetes or AKS clusters.  [Learn more about workload identity federation](https://learn.microsoft.com/entra/workload-id/workload-identities-overview).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - [Workload identity federation]({{< ref howto-wif.md >}}) - The recommended way to configure your Microsoft Entra ID tenant to trust an external identity provider. This includes service accounts from Kubernetes such as AKS clusters. [Learn more about workload identity federation](https://learn.microsoft.com/entra/workload-id/workload-identities-overview).
```

>  - [System and user assigned managed identities]({{< ref howto-mi.md >}}) - Less granular than workload identity federation, but retains some of the benefits.  [Learn more about system and user assigned managed identities](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/use-managed-identity).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - [System and user assigned managed identities]({{< ref howto-mi.md >}}) - Less granular than workload identity federation, but retains some of the benefits. [Learn more about system and user assigned managed identities](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/use-managed-identity).
```

>  - [Client ID and secret]({{ < ref howto-aad.md >}}) - Not recommended as it requires you to maintian and associate credentials at application level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - [Client ID and secret]({{ < ref howto-aad.md >}}) - Not recommended as it requires you to maintain and associate credentials at the application level.
```

>  - Pod Managed Identities - [Deprecated approach for authenticating applications](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/use-azure-ad-pod-identity) at a pod level.  This should no longer be used as it is recommended to use workload identity federation instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Pod Identity - Deprecated approach for [authenticating applications running on Kubernetes pods](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/use-azure-ad-pod-identity). This should no longer be used as it is recommended to use workload identity federation instead.
```

> # Managed identities and workload identity federation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##  Managed identity and workload identity federation
```

Reviewer: the top level `#` only ever is used as the title fyi

When your application is running on a supported Azure service (such as Azure VMs, Azure Container Apps, Azure Web Apps, etc), an identity for your application can be assigned at the infrastructure level.

This is done through [system or user assigned managed identities]({{< ref howto-mi.md >}}), or [workload identity federation]({{< ref howto-wif.md >}}).

Once using managed identities, your code doesn't have to deal with credentials, which:

- Removes the challenge of managing credentials safely
- Allows greater separation of concerns between development and operations teams
- Reduces the number of people with access to credentials
- Simplifies operational aspects–especially when multiple environments are used

> It's recommended that applications running on Azure Kubernetes Service leverage [workload identity federation](https://learn.microsoft.com/entra/workload-id/workload-identity-federation) to automatically [provide an identity to individual pods](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/workload-identity-overview).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's recommended that applications running on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) leverage [workload identity federation](https://learn.microsoft.com/entra/workload-id/workload-identity-federation) to automatically [provide an identity to individual pods](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/workload-identity-overview).
```

Reviewer: @atrauzzi  should this second link here be to the `({{< ref howto-mi.md >}})`?

Author: It's mentioned just a few lines up.  The first link is to the "concepts" and I think I'm going to remove the 2nd link as it isn't strong on the WIF. (last updated 2024)
